Vulnerability is our security holes or weaknesses.
The bank vault door I mentioned earlier should
not automatically open after 10 failed attempts.
That creates a vulnerability.
You deal with these in everyday life as well, an unlocked car,
an open house door and unattended backpack,
a broken window or scenarios where
vulnerability can allow someone to break in and steal valuable items.
In cybersecurity, vulnerabilities can surface as missing updates,
software flaws, improper error handling,
and many other types.
Let's take error handling for example.
You want to make sure that system errors don't fail in a way that helps threat actors.
If a user enters in the wrong password,
does the system respond in a way that can help an attacker?
If so, that's a weakness in the system.
Take a look at these two login error pages,
which do you think would help an attacker?
If you look closely at the error messages,
the first one discloses that the ID the user tried to enter is not yet taken.
If you start entering different IDs until that message doesn't show up,
then you know that you've been able to guess and enter an ID that's valid,
and now you just need a password.
The second error message exposes less vulnerability
because it doesn't tell the user much about what they've entered incorrectly,
and so they have to start from scratch.